welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth
show i'm excited to be joined by the
sales legend
john barrows today john is the ceo over
at jb
sales he's not just a trainer but he's
really a practitioner he's also
author of the sales book for kids on
being sales when i grow up and the host
of the make it happen mondays podcast
he's provided sales training
consultation services to some of the
world's fastest
growing companies like salesforce.com
google
linkedin dropbox many many more
john excited for this one man a very
welcome how you doing hey i'm doing
fantastic sam thanks for having me on me
i appreciate it
no worries dude so yeah looking forward
to chatting um today the the hot topic
is going to be how to prospect
through the noise which is a big thing
that you and the guys over at jb sales
are quite hot on right now
so we're going to hopefully be giving
everyone tuning in watching listening
some real actionable strategies on what
they can do with everything that's going
on today to really break through
whatever
everything that's going on and secure
new meetings and get deals over the line
but before we get to that stuff john
for anyone that does not know john
barrows please do give us a snapshot of
background on on your good self how you
got into business how you got into sales
that'd be great so i appreciate it yeah
i'll try to make it brief so
i grew up here in boston um went down to
maryland got my degree in marketing
because i didn't really know what i
wanted to be when i grew up got into
sales
with dewalt power tools uh did that for
about a year and a half then xerox
that's where i got my real sales
education
uh talking about selling a commodity and
then uh split from there
started a company called thrive networks
doing outsourced i.t services to the smp
market
self-funded 24 years old didn't know
what i was doing so took every training
there
was sandler miller hyman taz all of it
uh came across this one company basho
really loved the training uh so used it
helped grow thrive up we're the fastest
growing company in massachusetts for a
few years in a row
got us to about 12 million in revenue
and uh i'm sorry yeah 12 million in
revenue about 85 employees and then sold
off to staples
staples bought us uh spent about a year
going through that integration come to
find out apparently i'm not a corporate
guy
uh i don't have much of a filter and i
really don't like playing politics so
after a little while staples offered me
another position
they fired me and uh then uh
started with basho not because i wanted
to be a trainer but because i love the
content and you had to sell to train
so okay join basho then they screwed it
all up and i took it over to make a very
long story short so now
like you said i'm working with some
really cool companies like linkedin
salesforce box dropbox
uh slack all those and having some fun
doing it good man
all right john let's jump straight into
it so like we're saying this there's so
much like there's so much noise
it's tough now because everything's
almost move virtual in the b2b space
especially
so what are some ways that with with all
the noise with all the poor
prospecting outreach so we can really
break through and connect with our ideal
customers john and actually
start landing meetings and getting some
some business done with what's going on
today
yeah it's tough i i mean it's it's
interesting when when colbot hit you
know march time frame
uh there was i think hubspot had this
graph of of tracking
what was going on with emails and calls
and
email volume went through the roof
because everybody went home and the
response rates dropped through the floor
same thing with phone phone connect
rates were hard to begin with and now
they were damn near impossible there are
they're starting to come back
but it was really hard to crack through
the noise so some tactical things
um you know video's huge i mean i know
you had morgan on the show
we're seeing a lot of success with
linkedin videos and using video
throughout
the sales process not just uh
prospecting but
dealing with objections delivering
proposals so a lot of
this about you know showing empathy you
know people
it's funny back in march you know
everybody said lead with empathy lead
with empathy lead with empathy and then
you know
five five days into it every single
email in my inbox started with i hope
you and your family are doing well
and then cut to some piece of crap value
proposition
yeah and you know that's not empathy
empathy is is really putting yourself in
somebody else's shoes
and and how do you show it well video is
the best way to do it
so we've been using video a lot um but
i think the big theme that i want to get
across to people is is this
this concept of telling a story not
necessarily a cadence i think cadences
are important like a multi-touch contact
strategy
but most of the multi-touch contact
strategies that i'm seeing right now
are really templated right it's they
might send one decent email and then
it's hey did you get my first one
bubbling this one up to the top and you
know and then one two three stuck under
a rock type of crap
but the idea of telling a story and and
having a narrative around it
and and mixing up the mediums uh you
know a quick
example here i went on vacation for two
weeks it's the first time i went
on vacation for a long time family and i
did not
check my emails once like shut off my
phone didn't check once which for the
first time in 25 years of my career
that i didn't do that right so i came
back
and um i had two thousand emails in my
inbox like 2040 emails in my inbox
and i went through them and i
categorized them to say okay which ones
what buckets right marketing emails and
list service whatever and i did sales
emails and there were 78 sales emails
what i would consider
hey either they want to meet with me or
they want to pitch me on something right
zero of them were personalized zero of
them were personalized so i've been
preaching personalization for 12 years
now and i think oh yeah everybody gets
it
but nobody's still doing it and so if
you take personalization
it's not just enough to be personalized
hey john i see you went to university of
maryland you have to be relevant as well
so you have to be personal and relevant
and you have to tell a story so you have
to bring different things to the table
so you're getting people to think
and not pitching all the time but like
asking a question getting them to think
sharing a piece of content
sending them a video making a phone call
leaving a voicemail to tell them that
you sent them a video to go back and
look at it so there's all these
different mix and match things that we
have to play around with here but the
whole idea is telling us narrative story
and adding value
got it and on that note john so
everyone's got their idea
of what makes a great cold email what
makes a great cold outreach
and when we're talking about
personalization and also storytelling
bearing in mind when we're doing a cold
call if we're doing a cold email cold
video what it is we've only got a
limited
a few few seconds ready to actually get
our prospects attention
and then try and get the follow-up
whether that's a meeting or whatever we
want to get out of it
um how do we personalize that without
being creepy without saying look i've
been looking around your profile i can
see you really like this football team
or this
team and this kind of stuff but how do
we get to something we know is actually
important to them
and then at the same time tweak that
into a story when we've only got a few
seconds to get our point across
yeah and and this is where
personalization i think where people
fail or misunderstand personalization i
i think those creepy things that you
just mentioned are you know well
they're not creepy but like hey the
football team or the you know the school
the university that you went to
that's fine but don't lead with that
right i mean that was kind of linkedin
circa 2020 from 2002
and 2003 prospecting and that was good
back then right when linkedin first
started getting popular if you did go on
my linkedin profile and see that i went
to you maryland
and made that connection it showed you
were personalized but now it's just like
all right whatever first of all i'm a 44
year old man
if you reference my college like you've
already lost
so so personalization really means
something that i find that is
and i want to come back to
personalization and relevance if you can
make it
personal and relevant and when i say
personalized something about you
something about your company
right so either you talk you you posted
about something you wrote about
something your company did something
but then what about that what relevance
does your solution have
to that and when i talk about telling a
story in the in the the snippets here
you know most people prospect in in one
of two ways they do it either a broad
kind of elevator pitch approach which is
hey we do sales training consulting for
fortune 500 companies right and
guarantee the results you're looking for
and
that never lands or they do hey we do
sales training consulting we do
prospecting meeting execution
negotiation objection handling closing
those are kind of the five things that
we do right
and look i could probably wrap a nice
little type message around that
but but say i send you that email i
leave you that voicemail and you don't
respond
what's my next email what's my next
voicemail hey it's me again
did you get my first email i just want
to let you know we do prospecting
meeting execution it goes so instead of
that
if you had me choose between
personalization and relevance i would
choose relevance all day long
you know the ideal state is both of them
but if i hadn't choose i would say
relevance so for instance if you're a vp
of sales in the sas industry
i can do some homework on you or or your
persona to say okay let's go on google
and type in vp's of sales sas industry
priorities challenges 2020 cobin 19
right whatever
and read a few articles about what vps
of sales in the sas industry right now
are dealing with and then extract what
those priorities are and then
align the components of your uh
solution offering to those priorities
and then tell a story
right because my first email to you
about a vp of sales and this should be
about prospecting and if you don't like
that i don't care my next phone calls
are going to be
going to be about negotiations you don't
like that i don't care the next one's
going to be about meeting execution
so let marketing do the broadband this
is everything that we do i think in
sales we need to throw darts
right hey what about this and what about
that and what about this and you might
miss and miss and miss and miss and miss
but then you might strike that nerve
and if every one of those messages has
been relevant and and
and at least somewhat uh tailored to
either your persona or you or your
company
after a while i might give you a chance
right and that's kind of the key here is
that we have a short period of time so
cut it up in those short snippets and
then parse them out as opposed to doing
one big email
and then saying did you get it five
times in a row got it
okay so to actually like to break that
down a bit so actually doing a bit of
research looking online perhaps articles
with what's going on with your
target customer your your ideal customer
profile seeing that
learning the kind of challenges they've
got through articles blogs and those
kind of resources
and then i mean if you can yeah if you
have the time to do that if you have the
time to go on somebody's website right
and do that like first of all
recommendations here do it all do all
your research at the same time when
you're going after a certain account in
a certain
business uh and person try to find as
many things as you can
don't do research for one thing and
write one email and send it and then
schedule another activity three or four
days later
do all your research at the same time so
look for as many different things and
don't discriminate here like
anything you know there are companies
that you know if they have content on
their website that's a good that's a
that's a reason to reach out to them if
they have a help desk support
section on their website if they have
the portal for their clients if they
have multiple product lines like
these are all little things that if you
really think about it your solution can
connect to
so what are those easy things to look
for and then yeah if you can look at
articles and press releases and that
type of thing and pull out quotes and
that type of stuff that's fantastic
but do that all at the same time okay so
look for all your
triggers at the same time then figure
out the persona you're going after
and then you do the broader research of
what does that persona in that industry
care about
so now you have trigger information that
you can create messaging around and you
have persona information you can create
messaging around then you mix it up
so maybe your first email is a
personalized one hey i saw you wrote
this blog or whatever it is but your
second one is
we're showing vps of sales and
assassin's creed how to drive these type
of results based on their priorities
and my third one is a shared piece of
content that aligns with vp's of sales
based on their priorities right so if
you have all those assets at the same
time
then you can figure out how do i tell
this story and which ones are going to
be calls emails phone
social video whatever got it got it nice
man
and what are you guys finding is the the
best way to prospect right now to
generate meetings through
through social let's say linkedin as on
on a b2b basis is it is it all video or
you're doing tailored messages or you're
doing something
video i mean for us now a lot a lot of
this has to do with
who's your icp and who are your personas
okay that's cool
we sell to vps of sales cros and vp's
enablement usually in sas
so most of them are on social most of
them are on linkedin and most of them
are very active on linkedin
and so that's why linkedin video right
now if we go back to my vacation
of those 2040 emails that i got 356 of
them were linkedin messages
of those 356 linkedin messages um
i think 18 of them were were
personalized and only two of them were
video and those videos are the ones that
stood out
and again you hear a lot of people
talking about linkedin video but yet
still nobody's doing it nearly as much
as they could be now probably in a year
or two it's going to be overplayed
and it's not going to be as effective
but right now i think 50
of morgan's pipeline right now is
because of linkedin video
got it yeah yeah he shared a really nice
strategy of
how to approach video and just like say
john i think i said this on one of the
last episodes but
the amount of pitches i get daily let
alone the amount of pictures i'm sure
you get daily and
the few that are actually personalized
and then the few from there that are
actually video messages or audio
messages
just just such a good way to break out
from the rest of the clutter in the
inbox
well just again it shows empathy right
it puts that human element
i mean i think we as sales professionals
you know we need to let technology do a
lot of the work to be as efficient as we
possibly can be but we can't make it do
all the work and and so i have this you
know concept of
or mentality of i want to be the last
mile right i want to have
i want to have all the you know
technology feed me the information about
you your company your industry and that
type of stuff and maybe even
have messaging that i can pull from from
marketing or whatever
but before it goes out i want to be the
one that that humanizes it and what's
the easiest way to humanize content
this right and that's why i can't stand
for instance videos like
you know look we're big fans of vidyard
we're actually partners with them
but what i can't stand is when people
put the like white board
and they superimpose your name sam you
know and then when you open it up
it's like this generic hey you thanks so
much for opening up my
email i really appreciate it and this is
kind of this canned message
no like video the purpose of video is to
be personalized the purpose of video is
to show
empathy to be who you are to show a
human right and i think that's where
you know people miss a little bit
because they're trying to figure out oh
how can i do video at scale
i mean you can it's not going to work
it's just like spamming people it's just
like sending out a templated email to
100 people like you'll get a maybe a one
percent response rate
right it's the same thing with video
it's the same thing with phone it's the
same thing with email
got it man no i completely agree it's
quite annoying when you get those kind
of messages and it's just you just
realize it's just a generic video that's
they've sent to about 100 people cool so
you guys have built a huge brand over at
jb sales
and james and morgan yourself have all
got huge followings on linkedin
have you got any tips for people that
want to steadily build their brand as an
entrepreneur as a small business even a
bigger business on how they can do this
and some of the strategies you guys have
put into place to
to build your brand to what they are
today yeah you know i think we all come
actually it's funny we all come from
different angles on this myself morgan
and james you know and different
perspectives from a from an age
standpoint even you know look i'm about
to be 45 years old
you know when social selling and brand
building first hit right
her first hit sales you know i was like
great yet another thing i got to do to
be successful in sales fantastic added
to the list you know
and the whole idea of tweeting and
posting in in that in to build a
following like i honestly when it first
started i really didn't understand the
point i thought it was stupid
i thought this was just you know for
kids on twitter and stuff like that
so when i decided to go off on my own
with jb sales i decided all right
if i'm going to do this i'm going to do
this my way and my way was was more was
all about quality right
so and where it flipped for me was and
this is for everybody looking to get
into it because you don't have to be the
content creator
to build your brands okay i think the
stats are on linkedin like less than one
percent of people actually
create content on linkedin whereas
everybody else consumes
so you don't have to be the content
creator you have to be the content
curator and what happened with me was
where it really flipped for me and
started making sense was
when i started looking at it as
educating myself first
right so i should be educating myself on
my industry
i should be educating myself on my
personas that i'm going after the trends
and all that other stuff right just from
a pure business acumen standpoint
so i identified things that i should be
educating myself on and that my audience
was interested in
right or you know my target audience
should be interested in
then i started consuming that content
from other thought leaders
right so i use a i use feedly so
f-e-e-d-l-y it's just an rss aggregator
and what it does say there's like four
or five different sales blogs you like
reading
well usually you have to go to four or
five different sales websites or
you know have four or five different
sales emails hit your inbox with feedly
you can create a folder called feed
called sales blogs and dump all your
sales blogs in there so when you open it
up
you just see the headlines of all the
different sales bugs and kind of scan
through and see what you like
so for instance if you are uh selling uh
cyber security to cio to csos or
something like that
go to feedly create a folder called csos
then
go out and google and type in csos
thought leaders 2020
right and see what cisos are out there
or what organizations are writing blogs
or whatever it is
about csos and some of the challenges
that they're faced with put those blogs
into that folder and feedly and then
every morning when you're drinking your
coffee
right scan through those data feeds
that's kind of my morning paper
where i just kind of scan through data
feeds and i look for topics that are
relevant to me but also my audience and
when i scan through and i see an article
that i like the headline i'm like oh
that's kind of interesting
i read that article to learn first and
then and only
then when i learn something that's when
i share it on social linkedin whatever
with my context
and that's the key here too is don't
just share to share okay
share with your thoughts on it because
sam let's put it this way like i wrote a
blog i read a blog right i've been
writing a blog for the past six years
it's a pain in the ass takes me i don't
know takes me about an hour to sit down
think of something to write that's kind
of
decent right and then i send it to my
team they seo it they optimize it
whatever
and then it goes out so we're like three
hours into a one-on-one blog post right
now say i post that out and you and i
are connected
okay and you read my blog and you like
it
so you share it out there hey really
interesting blog by john blah blah blah
whatever and somebody you are connected
to
reads my blog because you shared it and
they like it
who do they think probably you
no they thank you i might get another
follower
i might get like but they don't say oh
john
thanks so much for writing that article
yeah yeah thanks for being there
for sharing that article so you get all
the credit i did all the work
so if you focus on education first a
you learn b you when you share you share
with your actual thoughts and authentic
mind you know you know with an authentic
approach there
and and that's where you start to build
and gain engagement and
it's not just a singular oh i'm trying
to build a following here i mean i think
everybody gets caught up with how many
followers and likes and shares and stuff
like that
you know it's engagement that matters it
doesn't matter how many likes i get or
views i get it's how many people are
actually engaged and value what i put
out there
and if you look at it that way it starts
to make a lot more sense yeah and i
think that's a really good angle and i'd
like the point you said at the start
being a content
curator rather than a creator so you're
actually
learning first then putting content
that's actually relevant
to the service or the product that
you're trying to sell
trying to offer people and then if it
has to be sharing a blog post and you're
putting your own take on it putting your
own spin on it rather than just sharing
another blog link for the sake of it
that everyone's going to skim past
so yeah putting putting your own opinion
against things and yeah like you say
then people will thank you to share it
so that that makes perfect sense man
that's that's some real nice tips cool
um yeah so
moving on i mean in terms of um when
what i'm interested this is taking a bit
of a side angle rather than the main
topic
but when you were when you were first
growing jb sales
were you guys um were you guys just
hitting the phones non-stop
in terms of that sort of things or were
you taking a digital approach from from
day one because i know
like you say you've had your blog for a
while or how did it first start out when
you were trying to grow things and get
meetings booked and
deals over the line yeah it was it was
uh you know i kind of graduated you know
i always say i'm a calculated risk taker
i'm not like the ultimate risk taker in
the sense that i'm not a pure startup
guy of
from zero with nothing mom's basement go
i'm usually there
there has to be a few things in place
there for me to take that jump
and so when i was at basho um and they
they literally like a new
2007 hit new ceo came in tanked the
company
fired all of us on the spot and and me
and one of the other
the senior trainers there we were the
only two left standing so we effectively
took over basho
and it was me and him and we started
kensei partners and then after that i
split off and went off my own so there
was a gradual it wasn't me just
okay now what do i do so there were
customers there but i do remember
and this is for a lot of the
entrepreneur in my opinion a lot of the
entrepreneurs out there to
pay attention to especially if you're
starting your own business you want that
marquee client you want that name that
you can use that's going to make your
life easier and i remember when we were
at basho
and we got fired me and actually two of
the other senior trainers sat there and
said all right we're going to start our
own business to basically take that over
and we put all the names up on the board
of all the clients that basha had done
business with
and you know there was i mean there were
some big ones especially at the time
like monster.com
sap like you know all and then
salesforce
and this was 12 years ago so salesforce
was good but they weren't where they are
but i had seen them like i just knew
that they were on a rocket ship right so
i
i pretended i cared about all those
other clients but i just wanted
salesforce because we were kind of
negotiating on that
and so i got salesforce and what i did
was for really the first
you know six to 12 months of me
working with kensei and then off on my
own i i pretty much over
serviced i i did more things for
salesforce than i would have for any
other client
right so i gave them pricing that i
probably wouldn't have given other
people i went to like singapore for a
day multiple times to train their team
out there
um and and the goal there was hyper
focus do super high quality work for one
really good client and maybe give up a
little
so that i could get that logo and and
get that story and that testimonial that
i could then use to to fish in the
waters that i knew i could fish in which
was the sas world
so once i really solidified them as that
that big client and
again you know did a little bit of pain
up front to to give away what i probably
wouldn't have given away otherwise
then it became then i started to to
you know kind of go outside of that
circle right so now with salesforce as
the center
i started to identify everybody else who
fit that icp
and then yes then it was not just
hammering the phones or hammering emails
but it was
what are the channels right there's
phone email networking
um referrals there's all these you know
there's what web and seo and
optimization and so we outlined
the five main channels that were that
were relevant to our audience and how we
could drive leads
and we tried to optimize each one of
those channels awesome
awesome and uh out of curiosity how did
you first get
get in touch with self force was it like
a client you already had a books or a
referral or something like that
yeah no it was our training so uh you
know we trained
so basha was very famous for this one
email called the yui now email i still
train on it i've adjusted it and evolved
it a little bit it's called the a to
email now
but it was called the yui now and it
goes back to our original point which is
personalization
which was you know you went on
somebody's website and you found a
trigger
and you sent an email hey i was doing
some research and i noticed this thing
happened whatever and you fire it off to
the senior level executive you get
referred down
and we did it uh so i didn't do it i'm
still looking for that email i wish the
rep
hadn't deleted their inbox uh when
everybody got fired but
you know we sent an email to george hugh
and frank uh so the vp of sales and the
cmo
and they funneled it all the way down to
this this guy doug landis who's a good
friend of mine now
and doug got it and was like okay i have
to take this because you know our cmo
just told me to take this conversation
and one thing led to another you know 12
years later i'm still training them so
it's a lot of practice what you preach
um i can't stand sales organizations
sales training organizations that don't
use their own training to
to sell to me that's like what
what's the point so we used our own
training to get in there
love it love it man and it's interesting
that point so you said you you went all
in to get salesforce on board
i cut pricing a little bit flew out all
over the shop did all this training and
it kind of reminds me of social proof so
when
when we're looking at clients to design
their websites or do their social work
and
you have these brands or you have these
testimonials or you have these reviews
just to give prospective clients that
see your presence online whether
it's your website whether it's a digital
asset or social and it just helps build
up that level of confidence that might
take them over the edge from
just being a browser to actually
reaching out and giving you a call or
filling out a form to get in touch to
discuss a potential project
so the social proof is huge but you know
what i've learned over the years
is you you have to make sure that
there's social proof for the audience
that you're going after that is relevant
to them
so for instance you know and i think
gong is really good at this they talk
about how case studies and use cases
they either significantly help or
significantly hurt your chances of
getting the business
because look i sit there and i say
salesforce linkedin box slack google
right those are those sound
really good right but if i put those if
i start
talking to a 20-person sales
organization that is self-funded
and you know what i mean like they hear
those names and they're like
whoa like you're probably way too
expensive
yeah so you have to you have to kind of
play to your audience right
uh i mean just because you got that one
logo doesn't mean now
the benefit from me back when salesforce
10 years ago they did
kind of span the chasm because every
other sales
sas organization wanted to be like
salesforce even if they were super small
so i could use that to have people be
like whoa but most of the time you drop
those big names
what you have to do is you have to
relate to the before more than
before you can convince people on the
after so
too many people talk about all these
fantastic results that they're driving
for other companies
but if i don't relate to what that
company was doing before
you worked with them i'm never going to
accept that you'll achieve the same
results for me on the after
right and i think the the group that
does this the best is um
you know a lot of the uh you know the
late night uh
you know qvc or shows where they're
selling crap for right
and they you know like the the um
tupperware right like they don't show
when you're selling tupperware they
don't show you the nice clean stacks
right
and say look at how awesome your
tupperware cabinet can look it's like
it's
black and white like and this you know
guy or woman who's like
you know in the kitchen and they open up
the door and all of a sudden all the
tupperware falls out all over them
and they're like oh and everybody has
that tupperware drawer everybody has
that stupid cabinet that has that all
the tupperware with all the different
mix match things
and so the concept there is oh yeah
that's me
and then once they got you is that's me
then they can sell you on the
okay well what can you do for me and so
i think that's where people miss on the
social proof is
they have to focus a little bit more on
the before than the after
that's a great point it's like when you
see these washing detergent adverts
you just see all the really really dirty
clothes and they put in the stuff in the
washing machine it comes out sparkly
white spiky clean
right and uh that's a real real nice
point and something like you say is
i guess it's understanding stories or
case studies that you've had
that are relevant to the prospective
client that you can relate and it
doesn't necessarily
matter i guess how big the company is if
the story's similar and it's
trying to do well and you just hit on
something that i would recommend
everybody do especially if they're new
in their organization the first thing
that i would do if i was coming into a
company i don't care about product
knowledge i really don't i'll figure
that out along the way and i got
engineers to help me
answer those questions i want to learn
all the stories
all the stories of all the successful
customers and i want to dive into my
case studies i want to i want to talk to
customer success
i want to understand what the use cases
are so that when i'm prospecting the
easiest thing
to to like those stories will help with
prospecting they will help with
qualification they will help with
objection handling they will help with
presentations like all that stuff if you
can pull those out of your backpack
at the right point in time when you get
somebody on the phone
you i mean think about this right we
talk about objection handling
you know one of the most famous
objection handling techniques is the
feel felt found right totally understand
how you feel about that other people
felt the same way what they found was
right just don't use the words feel felt
found
but case study is feel felt found hey
look i get that you know another client
had that same challenge
and after looking at it this way the
results were boom right that's field
felt found there's an objection handling
technique for you without even trying
and it really paints those visuals as
well doesn't it when you start telling a
toy that's relevant
and uh like you say you've just got to
go through a company's case study see
what they've done and
pick the ones that are tailored to your
specific need that's interesting
john earlier in the conversation you
talked about you guys were using video
and a few other unusual techniques not
just in the prospecting to book the
meeting or book the demo but throughout
the sales process
have you got any different or unusual
strategies that you're using perhaps
when you're doing your presentations
when you're doing your
sending proposals or quote documents
that people might not have thought of
and people that are just sending quotes
or doing presentations and
falling at the last hurdle that might
help them just to get a few more deals
over the line
absolutely so two things objection here
i'm going to go to objection handling
and presenting proposals objection
handling
when you get that email that says sorry
we've gone in a different direction or
sorry
we need to push this till q1 or whatever
instead of you trying to fire off an
email
and trying to you know deal with that
that way which never works objection
handling over email just does not work
right
um so a great thing to do is just light
up a video and be like
hey sam look i got your email i
understand look i totally understand
timing and budget is is an issue
with everything and i can appreciate
that but i'm a little confused here sam
because
when we previously spoke you said your
main priors were xyz that type of thing
and
and now you're telling me that you want
to push that off for another three
months to be able to do that so i'm a
little confused here would you mind
getting on a call with me just to give
me five minutes so i can understand a
little bit more clearly and then if
that's the case
we'll connect in q1 right that type of a
empathy
like you know facial that type of stuff
really really resonates
instead of you just trying to send them
an email right um
the other way and then this is what you
asked about uh you know proposal
development or
a delivery look let's talk about the
morgan has closed probably like six or
seven deals using this approach and and
the challenge here is
you want to get to power right so you're
dealing with somebody who's a maybe your
champion or your coach or whatever it is
and you know you have to get to the
executive suite to be able to deliver
that proposal but this person will not
let you right so say it's sarah and jim
and you're like jim and you do
everything hey jim can i you know
present this you know what's the best
way to get some you know
whatever and jim's like you know what
i'm the guy john send it to me
and i'll move it upstream okay so then
instead of you just sending the pdf you
do a video right and again we use
vidyard so what we'll do is
we will actually have the side by side
we'll have the proposal up on the screen
and then we'll have our little bubble in
the right-hand corner or whatever
and say hey uh so say it's uh again
sarah jim i'm going after jim hey jim
what's going on instead of putting
together this proposal and just send it
as a pdf i just wanted to give you a
quick little walk-through of it
and um some highlights here and by the
way if you wanted to for this up to
sarah feel free
and if you could do this if you want to
you'd be like oh by the way sarah if
you're watching this i just want to let
you know jim's been fantastic
he's obviously got your best interest in
mind here so you kiss his ass a little
bit
and then you say all right so here's the
deal you had said that your main
priorities were x y z these are the
components of our solution that really
align with that
so you can read through the details but
i really wanted to just hammer home why
i think we are the best fit
for what you told us with what your
needs were if you have any questions
feel free to give me a call back
okay nice now you send that to jim you
watch
you know with video you can see how long
they watch that a if he watched the
video
b how long he watched the video and then
if he forwards it to sarah
you can see he got forward afforded to
sarah and how long she watched it so now
you are
sitting there presenting in front of the
executive so we got i think
i think morgan got at least five or six
deals using that approach when he was
having a
really hard time breaking through to get
to power previously
yeah sometimes tricky i found vidyard
really good i think i've mentioned this
in quite a few episodes even when um
we've had leads or prospects that have
just gone quiet yeah i've just sent them
a customized vidyard
just something like have you given up on
this project then just give give them
outs really just say look um i haven't
heard from you in a while is this
is xyz no longer a priority did you want
me to close the file or
would it make sense for us to chat
perhaps next week or the week after and
the response
rate is really good because like you say
it's tailored it's different and not
many other people doing it just stuff
well and it's also just again it's it's
a i'm a person you know what i mean like
i'm not trying to
i like in an email like i you can't read
tone and email right so i don't know
what's going on there you know call
voicemail
okay you know that's better but most
people aren't even gonna listen to that
but when you see a video
and you are genuinely and you've engaged
with somebody you've had a good
conversation with them and then all of a
sudden you kind of get on video and
you're like
you know sam i'm a like look man i
thought we were having some good
conversations here and all of a sudden
you went dark on me
first of all i hope everything now by
the way small nugget here when
to your point of people going dark on
you if somebody does go dark on you
that's when you absolutely have to lead
with empathy right now because you don't
know
what's going on in someone's life at
this point and there's some crazy
going on in people's lives at this point
so don't you dare get mad at somebody
that goes at you
start always with hey man i haven't
heard from you in a while i really hope
everything's okay
for you personally right but you had
said your priorities were x y and z and
that's why i'm actually reaching out and
i'm trying to wonder why you actually
you know
went dark on me here and to your point
it actually gets a pretty high response
right definitely
definitely man um and on that note we're
going to wrap things up pretty soon john
but before we start recording he said um
there's a few ways that we can be agile
with everything that's going on when
we're trying to trying to get
business generated when i'm trying to
get deals done um how can we stay agile
how can we
can we stay mobile with everything
that's going on right now
yeah be a scientist you know split test
everything i've said i've been saying
this for years uh you know if so if i
could go back and tell my 22 year old
self something what would it be it would
be to a b
split test everything and i mean it and
i mean this as a team if you can as an
organization right
split test messaging so if you're going
after cios and healthcare come up with
two different messages to cios and
healthcare make 20 calls with this one
make 20 calls with that see which one
heals a higher response rate
you know if there's one email that you
can send out to a group of people send
the same email 50 right but break it up
into 25 and change the subject line and
see what happens
tweak how you you know use gong data and
tweak how you introduce yourself even
over the phone
test questions right and constantly be
picking components
of the sales process that you can that
you can
test and improve upon right because
things are changing so fast right now
that what worked six months ago is just
not working anymore right now
and if you're not paying attention to
that and not you know
really analyzing the data and making
adjustments using it
you're gonna get beat and last point
i'll make on that
is it's a way to make this far more
interesting so
look we and i'm gonna i'm gonna use sdrs
but it's
sdrs aes everybody at this point but
let's use sdr's for a second here
sdr's i i think that's one of the
hardest jobs in sales right to be
sitting there getting railed on on the
phone and just get
no 99.9 of the time right what made that
job
somewhat tolerable is that previously we
were in the office
in a bullpen with a bunch of other sdrs
getting our asses handed to us
and so when you know when we were having
a bad day or got smoked on the phone we
could turn to somebody else and be like
whoa did you hear that like that was
brutal do you want to get a drink
and and there was some camaraderie
around that so it made the job
tolerable but now we're all sitting at
home with
nobody and so we're getting our asses
handed to us and the only person that we
can commiserate with is our cat right
so how do you how do you get up every
morning and stay motivated with this
well be a scientist because look let's
just
break it down easy like if you if say
you made 50 dials in a day and you got
absolutely no meetings and nothing good
happened right that's a terrible day
obviously
but if you made 50 dials and you made 25
with this approach and 25
with this approach and you've still got
no meetings to me
that's actually not a terrible day
because you just figured out two
approaches that don't work
tomorrow new ones and if you can walk
away saying i've learned something
today or i i figured something out today
it makes this a lot more interesting and
you can stay a lot more motivated by
doing it
love it man a b testing split testing
applies to sales it applies to marketing
just like we do for our clients when
we're testing different ad copies
different landing pages different tweaks
on their website to see what drives the
most traffic what converts the most
leads what drives the most sales with
yeah applies to all enter the chain and
like you say if you're
testing you're progressing ready look we
as sales professionals need to take a
little bit of a page for marketers my
background's marketing right so that's
why i have a healthy respect for it but
marketing is coming for sales right they
are getting smarter the ai tools are
getting better the insights are getting
better right
and so we as sales professionals if we
don't start to up our game as far as
understanding the analytics and unders
you know and and the nuances and testing
different things out
marketing is going to get closer and
closer and closer to sales and
eventually it's going to tip over
i appreciate it john this has been a
great conversation man um
i'd like to ask everyone that comes on
if you could pick just one digital
marketing of channel of choice that
would help businesses grow what would be
your choice sir
what are the options that you like what
are some of the options that you want oh
we've
like we've had everything but many
people say linkedin
um many people say all different things
really a lot of people say go go to
where your audience is
so i was hoping for something quite
obscure but you go with whatever feels
right
um if i could only choose one i mean
that's
that's the unfair part about this right
because i think because of my audience
it would be
it would be linkedin but you know um
yeah i'm going to go the easy route here
because linkedin it is where your
audience is but i'm going to go linkedin
because
you know if you think about email phone
social all that stuff
linkedin and capital encapsulates all of
it you can send an email you can send a
video
you can connect with people you can do
those things so i think it's it is the
all-encompassing one
i'm partial by the way you know and i i
know people
probably like what but email to me is
still the
the best form of executive communication
in general because most executives you
know
gen xers and up are still on email even
though it's flooded that's how we still
mostly
so you know i think that one is is i
don't think i'm ever going to get rid of
that one but linkedin is one from a
digital standpoint
that i would probably lean in on yeah
dude i'm just waiting for the day where
everything's through linkedin like you
can literally do all your zoom calls all
your emails
all your crm all your lead tracking all
your sales stuff because it's not far
off now is it
well i mean now that microsoft bought
them you know what i mean like microsoft
when
with microsoft linkedin and and linda
right with that combination
once they figure that out as far as
being able to be in a crm
connect all your people and then have
content that actually like just in time
learning so when i'm about to make a
phone call you a little video pops up
and says hey before you call sam make
sure you do this
like they they have all the pieces there
whether they figure it out or not is a
different story
that's it that's it dude well really
appreciate everyone you've been tuning
in to sam's
business growth show where we sit down
with business leaders experts and
entrepreneurs from around the globe who
find out their story how digital
marketing has happened along the way
and their exclusive tips and insights to
help you score at your sales
and your business john if you could
thank just one person either dead or
alive having a positive influence on
your
life and your career who would that be
and wow
yeah it was um i think it'd be my
my mom because my mom and my dad
actually i i come from
my dad's electrical engineer and my
mom's an artist
um so i have the science and the art um
entrepreneurs my mom actually quit her
job when
um when i was born nine years after my
sister i was a happy surprise
and uh and stayed home even though she
had a great job and she had a uh
you know had worked out of her house she
was a consultant out of our house and i
really never knew
what entrepreneurship was but i always
felt like i had it in me and there was
an itch in me and i didn't know why
and it was because of the example that
my parents gave me so i
i'm blessed to have two extremely uh
caring parents who are still married
after
50 in two years 53 years or something
like that
so yeah so pretty fortunate awesome man
john tell us a bit more how people can
learn from you how people can connect
with your good self
and anything you'd like to promote and
the best way to get in touch yeah
it's jbarrows.com so jbarrowws.com on
there you'll see
uh training for individuals which is our
whole new on-demand platform that gives
everything that we do so every training
you know are filling the funnel or
driving a close everything that we do is
on that platform for individuals it's
420 bucks a year and you get the same
exact training that i say
i give to salesforce and everybody else
so that and then linkedin obviously is
is probably my biggest and then uh you
know i do a lot of free consulting off
of instagram so
handle there is john emma's and michael
barrows uh all one word
if anybody has any questions or needs
some support on anything hit me up there
i'll get back to you almost immediately
awesome man john really appreciate you
coming on dude yeah thanks for having me
sam i appreciate it
cheers and if you enjoyed the show be
sure to hit subscribe on your podcast
channel of choice just search sam's
business growth show where we interview
business leaders
to give you actionable tips to boost
your sales each and every week thank you
so much for tuning in
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts